how to make an ocean in a bottle hello
welcome to videojug the science boffins
are going to shows a brilliant
experiment they're all amazing astound
your friends to perform this experiment
you will need to make an ocean in a
bottle it's very easy to do and the
results are great step 1 you will need
the following apparatus a clear plastic
bottle a big soft drinks bottle is best
a funnel some water a few drops of blue
food coloring and cooking oil any type
will do step 2 aim the aim of this
experiment is to see why oil and water
cannot mix together step 3 method first
of all fill 1/3 of the bottle with water
add a few drops of blue food coloring
and swish it around in the bottle until
it turns a dark blue color
now top up the bottle with cooking oil
use the funnel to make it easier
put the lid on as tight as it will go
you don't want to make a mess and make
your monk cross tilt the bottle from
side to side watch the water and all do
not mix together but instead they form
layers the oil floats on the water which
makes it move like a wave step four
conclusion so why did this happen oil
sits on top of water because oil is less
dense but some liquids with different
densities can mix together so why not
these two for liquids to mix together
their molecules need to make new bonds
with each other the oil and water cannot
mix together because water molecules
have strong bonds between them called
hydrogen bonds the oil molecules are
also held together by bonds but these
are of a different polarity to the
hydrogen bonds and the oil bonds are not
strong enough to break the waters
hydrogen bonds so the water and oil
molecules cannot join up with each other
keeping the water in the oil forever
separate experiment complete
you